count 3
== Sports
--Human body types
2015-10-20
A person's body type is a factor that determines a lot in muscle building workouts.
From our ancestors, and in the narrow sense, from our parents, we inherit the type of the nervous system (determining the character),
the appearance of the skeleton (thin-boned or wide) and even physical strength, not to mention things like facial features and eye color.

As a result of acquired heredity, all these genetic characteristics are manifested in strict dependence.
Forming three stable groups of qualities. Therefore, each of us can be classified into a certain category of people by body type.
The genetic affiliation of this or that person is easy to read from his figure!

All three types of human constitution have different metabolic rates.

In the body of an ectomorph, everything "burns out" rapidly. Completeness does not threaten him. He has a lean body and long bones, a fragile build, little fat and lean muscles.
It is difficult for him to gain muscle mass. But, what he acquired looks very aesthetically pleasing due to narrow bones and lack of fat.

Well, endomorph, on the contrary, is able to get fat before our eyes. Metabolism - "burnout" of proteins, fats and carbohydrates - is slowed down.
In addition, the body's energy requirements are also low. Hence the excess adipose tissue ... the body is round and soft, a lot of fat.
People with this type of physique usually gain general muscle mass easily. But it is very loose. The main challenge for this type is getting rid of excess fat.

The mesomorph is distinguished by naturally developed muscles ... Bones are thick, muscles are voluminous. People with this body type gain muscle mass very easily.
Often not noticing that they look too square.

Most often we see a kind of mixture of two body types in a person. Endomorphic Mesomorph or Ectomorphic Mesomorph. Pure types are much less common.
-----
--Adaptation of muscles to stress
2015-10-22
Let's say we are doing everything right. Our moderate weight set ends within 30 seconds with optimal reps (most commonly 6-12 reps).
By the way, you need to understand that the muscle does not care how many reps you do. For her, only time under load is important.

Therefore, you can do 5 very slow and smooth repetitions, and 10 faster.
If the execution time of the approach is the same, then the impact on energy will be the same.

But as you exercise, your muscles and energy will IMPROVE. Habitual training stress will decrease.
until the muscles get used to it and then their growth will stop. Where is the exit? You need to constantly increase training stress by forcing the muscles to expend more energy!
THIS IS THE PRINCIPLE OF LOAD PROGRESS!

There are thousands of options for progression of the load (waste of energy) in training. But the simplest and most familiar is the increase in weight on the barbell from workout to workout. More weight = more energy = more stress = more muscle growth. Everything is logical
-----
=====
== Nutrition
--Basic Nutrition
2015-10-24
Proteins (proteins)

Proteins are the main building blocks of the body, necessary for the formation of new
muscle fibers and the repair of injured tissues in all organs (protein for muscle growth) ...
With an increase in the intensity of physical labor, the body's needs for protein also increase.

Carbohydrates

The body receives the bulk of its energy from carbohydrates. They provide the body with 55-60% of all recovered energy.
Carbohydrates are oxidized in the mitochondria of cells and the energy thus released is stored in the form of ATP.
This is one of the main functions of carbohydrate metabolism.
Take note: The energy value of one gram of carbohydrate corresponds to 17 kilojoules or 4.1 kilocalories
Fats

No matter how sophisticated the supporters of newfangled diets, the body needs fats.
They play a huge role in ensuring the life of our body.
Fats are involved in the absorption of vitamins and the production of hormones.
They also improve the taste of food and control the level of satiety.
Fats provide energy for the breakdown of food proteins and further build the body's own proteins,
more efficiently than carbohydrates.
One gram of fat in food provides approximately 9 calories.

Water

The human body is 55-65% water. The body of an adult with a body weight of 65 kg contains an average of 40 liters of water.
As we age, the amount of water in the body decreases.
Many believe that one of the reasons for the aging of the body is a decrease in the ability of proteins to bind large amounts of water.
Today we are talking about the meaning and properties of water.
-----
--Water value
2015-10-21
The human body is 55-65% water.
The body of an adult with a body weight of 65 kg contains an average of 40 liters of water.
As we age, the amount of water in the body decreases.
Many believe that one of the reasons for the aging of the body is a decrease in the ability of proteins to bind large amounts of water.
Today we are talking about the meaning and properties of water.

Even if you only lose 3% of your body's water, you will no longer be able to run.
If 5% - you will not be able to train with your favorite weights.
Well, if all 10%, then people in white coats will have to work hard to breathe life into you again.
Water is the primary medium in which many of the chemical reactions that underlie life take place.
The body strictly regulates the water content in every organ and in every tissue. The constancy of the internal environment of the body,
including a certain water content - one of the main conditions for normal life.

It is also important to know the following: the consumption of foods high in sodium salts contributes to water retention in the body.
Potassium and calcium salts, on the contrary, remove water. Therefore, it is recommended to limit the intake of salt and foods containing sodium,
and increase foods rich in potassium and calcium.
If the body is dehydrated, on the contrary, the dose of sodium-containing foods should be increased.

Water Recommendations:

1. 2 hours before loading - 300 ml

2.in 10-15 minutes - 100 ml

3.during work - liter per hour in small portions

4. Drink at least 2 liters of water a day
-----
--The rate of exchange of substances
2015-10-20
Generally, men have a higher metabolic rate (metabolic rate) because they have a larger and more muscular body ...
Muscles consume energy around the clock, and the more muscle tissue in the body, the more calories are required to provide it.
Therefore, the metabolic rate can be increased by building muscle mass.
This requires strength training or very hard physical work (lifting weights). Metabolic rate slows down with age
but this process is not always explained by aging. More often this is associated with a decrease in physical activity.

Any physical activity requires energy. Therefore, mobile people have a higher metabolic rate,
spending 20-30% more calories on muscle activity.
However, the metabolism or metabolism of the body, it largely depends on what type of physical activity you are doing.
Research suggests that aerobic exercise (such as running or walking) does not increase your metabolic rate after exercise.
Bodybuilding is more encouraging in this regard. Since anaerobic exercise builds muscle mass, it helps
increasing the constant metabolic rate. In other words, the more muscle you build, the more calories your metabolism will digest.

Nutrition also affects the metabolic rate of the body. During the digestion of food, the metabolism is accelerated. This is why you should eat
often and little by little. This will help promote metabolism. Certain foods and nutrients such as protein, caffeine, green
tea and hot spices, increase the metabolic rate for a while
-----
--Digestion
2015-10-20
A very important question that can completely LIMIT any of your attempts in terms of gaining muscle mass.
The question is so important that I do not understand why no one has considered it in depth until now.

We, like any mammals, spend our life transforming organic mothers into g ... (waste). And the more efficiently we can do it,
the better we feel, because we get more energy.

I have many familiar athletes with good muscle genetics, who for many years, even with chemistry, have not been able to show progress.
Only because of the fact that "sit on the toilet" as soon as they start to eat more during a set. And you CANNOT eat less, as we have already established.

Those guys who at one time took advantage of the recommendation for additional intake of enzymes showed good results in terms of gaining mass.

The problem with the absorption of food lies in the area of ​​the gastrointestinal tract. And there can be a huge number of these problems.
Hydrochloric acid may be produced worse for the breakdown of food in the walls of the stomach, then indigestion and heartburn appear. Undigested food may enter the small intestine,
then you scare the girl on the first date with scary sounds from the depths of your soul. All these problems need to be diagnosed and treated, if any.
Well, prevention ... it is a must. You need to eat simple, natural foods. The food you digest best.

Two words about separate food. The topic is extensive and highly controversial. My practical experience is that split feeding works and works very well.
However, most serious scientists are of the opinion that "the game is not worth the candle!" since
Food will be absorbed faster, but this will teach your stomach to digest proteins and carbohydrates at the same time.
And genetically, we have such an adaptation. We can digest proteins and fats at the same time.
Moreover, there are a number of products that themselves contain both (for example, soy, buckwheat, nuts, beans, etc.).
It seems to me that the truth is somewhere in between.
In some moments, it is better to ease the work of your stomach and separate nutrients (for example, in the morning, after training and before bed), and in some other times, stick to a more familiar diet.
-----
=====
== Fitness
--Fast weight loss
2015-10-20
Energy is the key to everything

Energy is what we need to perform any action, both visible and invisible. Without energy, absolutely nothing can be done.
You are now looking at the monitor and a lot of energy is spent on it (to maintain a fixed posture with your muscles, to work your heart and other muscle organs).
Even more energy is spent at the moment on the active work of your brain. Actually, about a quarter (25%) of all your body's energy at the moment is spent just thinking about this information.
Even when you are sleeping, you need energy for the work of internal organs, the flow of chemical reactions in your body, the renewal of systems damaged during the day, etc. ENERGY IS OUR ALL!

ENERGY consumption consists of TWO components:

1) BASIC POOL of energy (basic metabolism. That which is spent in a passive state)
2) CONSUMPTION POOL of energy (this is what a person spends as a result of any activity)

BASIC ENERGY POOL

Imagine that you are leading life like an amoeba i.e. do not engage in any physical, mental or emotional activity, but only eat, sleep and go to the toilet.
In such a situation, very little energy will be spent. BUT it will still be spent (on the work of internal organs and the implementation of chemical reactions, on sleep, etc.).
So we call this MINIMUM energy consumption BASE POOL or BASIC ENERGY CONSUMPTION.
This is the part of the energy that will be spent in a passive state. The amount of this energy will depend on many factors.
For example, the climate, your genetics (different people have different metabolic rates), your weight.

It is known that muscular athletes lose fat much more easily than non-muscular ones. The explanation is very simple: MUSCLES are very voracious things.
Even in a passive state, lying in front of the TV, they absorb a lot of energy. That's why if we compare two 80-kilogram twin brothers,
one of whom is a muscular jock, and the second is an ordinary person, then we will see that the jock spends TWICE MORE ENERGY every day than his non-athletic brother.
And this means that he can eat twice as much food without risking the figure.
And also the fact that any dietary restrictions will lead to weight loss twice as fast.

CONSUMPTION POOL OF ENERGY

This is what you spend in ADDITION to your basic metabolism when you do any ACTIVITY (physical, mental or even emotional).
For example, training in the gym is work, just like running, running a car, or drawing.
All this is physical activity, or work that requires energy, without which nothing happens. All of this is a CONSUMPTION POOL of energy.

I have always been a supporter of decreasing the OUTLET side of the equation (ie diet) rather than increasing the OUTLET side (ie "exercise for losing weight").
Because it is more rational in terms of time and effort. Here it is necessary to clarify. There are TWO MISCONCEPTIONS regarding weight loss exercises:

1. Workouts in the gym are very helpful in losing weight.
2. If you train your abs, you will lose a lot of weight in the waist area.
This is absolutely not the case.

Any resistance training (free weights or machine) is primarily aimed at increasing muscle (anabolism) rather than losing weight (catabolism).
Anabolism and Catabolism are opposite processes. It is practically impossible to achieve them simultaneously. It's like accelerating and decelerating at the same time.
-----
=====